What is DNS (Domail Name Service) ?

It is a way to convert the domain name to the website IP address 

the connection with DNS server is UDP 

when we write a domain name in the browser it first look up at the hosts cache on the pc 

if it is not exist on it, it while look up on the ISP DNS server then top level domail DNS server then the root server until it find it and cache it 


Known attacks :

1) DNS poisoining 

the attacker put the DNS his server so he can spoof the websites IPs to a fake ones he made so 

all the data you entered comes to him .

we can use dnschef tool in attacks like this but you need to have access to the victim Pc 

to change the DNS domain or you can use social Engineering like today an app to speed the Inertnet connection and put your server IP 

2) What is a DNS amplification attack?

you can spoof the website server ip and go to the open DNS sever and request all the DNS cache 

all this replay that will came to the server it will down the server 

"spoof requests at open DNS resolver and it will reply to the real server with large response "

3) DNS Cache snooping :

It manges you to see all the DNS zones contents doen't explain it see it after 


What is subdomain takeover?


Subdomain takeover is a process of registering a non-existing domain name to gain control over another domain

What is DNS records :

DNS records act as instructions for the DNS server, so it knows which domain names each IP address is associated with.

Different record types :

1) "A" This record refers to the actual IP address that’s associated with the domain.

you can use dig tool to find the record types and subdomains 

2) "AAAA" the same of "A" but it indecates to a server with v6 IP 

3) "MX" This refers to any mail servers that might be used in accordance with your domain.

4) "CNAME" This record is used to indicate subdomains that might be listed under or associated with your current domain. 

5) "PTR" This record if you want to connect different hosts with same IP address

6) "SOA" This record has crucial information about your domain, like when your domain was last updated and relevant contact information.   

Tools :

Dig : uses to search all DNS records and DNS zone transfer

HostileSubBruteforcer : subdomanis takeover 

What is DNS zone transfer :

DNS zone transfers using the AXFR protocol are the simplest mechanism to replicate DNS records across DNS servers.
To avoid the need to edit information on multiple DNS servers, you can edit information on one server and use AXFR to copy information to other servers

How to initiate DNS zone transfer :

It is very simple we will use dig commands , for example the domain is zontransfer.me 

First, we need to get the list of DNS servers for the domain :

$ dig +short ns xonetransfer.me
nsztm1.digi.ninja.
nsztm2.digi.ninja.

then, we can get initiate an "AXFR" request (the protcol is used in zone transfer) to get a copy of the zone from the primary server :
note : we do the changes on the primary servers and do these commands from the secondry to transfer the new data 

$ dig axfr zonetransfer.me @nsztm1.digi.ninja.
; <<>> DiG 9.8.3-P1 <<>> axfr zonetransfer.me @nsztm1.digi.ninja. 
;; global options: +cmd zonetransfer.me. 7200 IN SOA nsztm1.digi.ninja. robin.digi.ninja. 2017042001 172800 900 1209600 3600 
(...)

AXFR Vulnerability and Prevention

AXFR offeres no authentication, so any client can ask a DNS server for a copy of the entire zone.
this means that unless some kind of protection is introduced, an attacker can get a list of all hosts for a domain, which give tham a lot of potential attack vectors.

In order to prevent this vulnerability from occurring, the DNS server should be configured to only allow zone transfers from trusted IP addresses. 
The following is an example of how this can be accomplished in the BIND DNS server.

# /etc/named.conf 
acl trusted-nameservers {
  192.168.0.10; //ns2 
  192.168.1.20; //ns3 
}; 
zone zonetransfer.me { 
  type master; 
  file "zones/zonetransfer.me"; 
  allow-transfer { trusted-nameservers; };
};

Additionally, it’s also recommended to use transaction signatures (TSIG) for zone transfers to prevent IP spoofing attempts.







